From the standpoint of human geography,
why we live where we live in the world,
it's actually driven by a fairly
categorically organized set of variables.
Those variables are colliding,
but you can actually segment them.
Demographic imbalances:
the gap between young and old.
Young people move to countries
where wealthy aging populations need them.
That's been happening for generations.
Political upheaval: civil wars,
international conflicts,
such as we're witnessing right now,
but of course, the 20th century
had a lot of these as well.
So large refugee flows, for example.
Economic dislocation,
like financial crises,
when we have those people
move away from areas
that have become
deindustrialized, for example,
like the Rust Belt of the United States
or Southern Europe.
Technological disruption.
That can be AI and automation,
forcing you away from the place
where you had a stable job.
But it could also mean Zoom.
You can live anywhere, do this call,
do your job from anywhere.
So positive and negative.
And of course, climate change,
which is actually the original
driver of where we live,
and it's coming back.
It was the driver of where
humans have settled
for hundreds of thousands of years,
and now it's changing.
And if you take all of these together
and multiply it by the connectivity,
all of the infrastructure that we have
built to enable human mobility,
you get a world in which we’re going
to use that capacity for mobility,
and we're going to have mass migrations
potentially on a scale
we've never seen before.
And that's what I want to dive
into a little bit right now.
So let's start with the climate angle.
This map actually shows you the present
distribution of the world population.
This is it, all of us, you,
wherever you are,
you are a pixel on this map.
There's eight billion pixels here.
Now, watch what happens, tragically,
as climate change advances
and as what is called
the suitability of a geography changes,
in other words, the suitability
for human habitation and survivability.
Now, what you just saw happen
is an animation
that reflects what’s called
the Suitability Index,
derived from measurements
of temperature change.
There's obviously many other
climate-related factors as well,
rising sea levels, among others.
But this is strictly based
upon temperature.
And red doesn't mean
you cannot live there,
but it means that it's becoming
decreasingly suitable for human life,
whereas green means that relative
to how it used to be,
it's becoming more suitable
for human life.
Now, this is the greatest irony
in the entire world today.
I can think of no more profound paradox
that we've ever encountered than this.
Think about what I showed you before.
Most of the human population
lives in places
that are basically turning red.
The places that are green
right now on your map
are places that are depopulating.
Less and less people
as a result of old age and mortality
and low fertility rates.
So the rich countries of the world,
the United States, Canada,
Europe and so forth, Russia, Japan
would actually be declining in population,
Russia most certainly is,
were it not for immigration.
This is what we have to solve.
This is the profound challenge.
In one picture
that's worth millions of words,
this is the world that we seem
to be headed towards.
We need to figure out how eight billion
people reside on this landmass.
The territorial area on this map
is 150 million square kilometers.
There are eight billion of us.
Where do we go to optimize
our own survival as a species?
And because of the lines that are missing
on this map, the borders,
this becomes a lot more difficult
than it would be if we could simply wander
wherever we wanted to
the way we did when we were
populating the continents
over the last 100,000 years.
Now, over the last 30 years,
this has been a stable migration
arrangement in the world.
The largest number of people
moving within and across regions
is documented for you here.
And it's people within
the former Soviet republics,
so Ukrainians to Russia,
Russians to Ukraine.
Now Ukrainians out of both
Russia and Ukraine.
South Asians moving
to the Persian Gulf countries.
Latin Americans moving north
into Central and North America.
Europeans within Europe and so on.
This is what’s been steady flows,
if you will, of people
over the last 30 years.
But the next 30 years
won't be exactly the same.
And that we, again, don't have a map for,
there isn't even really
a historical precedent
for that kind of movement across regions,
across continents, as we might see.
Now, the second demographic factor here is
our overall world population.
All of this is happening at a time when,
instead of the world
reaching 15 billion people,
as some predicted in the 1980s and 1990s,
instead it could well be
that our world population
never even reaches 10 billion people.
So I call it peak humanity.
Fertility is declining.
Again, note the mismatch.
The wealthy countries of the north
are the ones that are
shrinking in population,
whereas young countries of the South
and the developing world
still have very large, young populations.
And we need to find ways
to correct that mismatch
if we want to have a global population
that is sort of, you know,
stable and willing to reproduce.
Not that we want
to have a population surge,
but we don't want to crash either.
We need to think about how young people
can cope with climate, with geopolitics,
with the economic pressure,
and live in places
where they can still produce
a sizeable next generation of people.
What's happening right now
is that young people
aren't having any children.
And that's going to actually lead
to a very steep
population crash in many ways.
So this got me thinking
about how young people think.
And this forms a big part
of the argument of the "Move" book,
because when we, and I don't mean
we as in every one of you,
but when people who are say,
my age or older, Gen X or,
you know, baby boomers,
we speak very confidently in this sort of,
you know, plural pronoun,
you know, as if our views represent
the views of people in the world.
Young people in cities who don’t have
children who are struggling,
that’s the future of humanity.
It’s the present
and the future of humanity.
And I'm interested
in the things that we can do
to make life better for those people,
because they are the present
and the future
of our species' population.
And they do think very differently
from previous generations.
They're not loyal to nationality,
they're more interested
in certain sets of values.
And those values, that have been
very well documented,
are the right to connectivity,
a sustainable world and mobility,
their own right to be mobile.
In fact, this is the most mobile
generation in the history of the world,
because not only do we have the tools,
the physical infrastructure to do it.
But again, the things that have pinned
people down primarily
are home ownership and having children.
But if people don't own homes
and don't have children,
then they are by definition quite mobile,
especially if they're not even
loyal to their home country
for the sake of it.
And so where will young people go
is a very important question
that I'm trying to answer.
What are they looking for?
Places that offer opportunity,
work, particularly
professional opportunities,
educational opportunities,
a decent quality of life,
political stability, climate stability,
the basic things that you would expect.
But we need to be clear that countries
need to retrofit themselves,
retool themselves, to try and attract
and provide those kinds
of environments for young people.
And that's where young people
are going to want to go.
And countries, I believe,
are going to be engaged in a war
for young talent,
to attract those young people
as they are aging.
So there is a road map for us
to untangle ourselves from this dilemma
of geopolitical fragmentation,
a climate-stressed world,
a declining population,
youth that are insecure.
What are we supposed to do?
Well, the thing is, you know,
we can't predict the future,
but we can make scenarios.
So I've constructed these
four scenarios along these axes
of more or less sustainability
and more or less mobility.
And the truth is that all of these
are visible today.
We are in a world where regions
like Europe act like fortresses.
They're investing
in their own sustainability,
but they try to ward off migration.
We live in a world that's medieval,
a world that is conflictual,
in which people are thrust
into survival mode
of hunter-gatherer lifestyles.
When there is a drought
or when there's a flood
or they're fleeing civil war and conflict
and they're trying to cross borders
like the US-Mexico border,
trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea,
where countries are engaged in land grabs
and water wars to acquire resources.
But we also live in a world
where there are countries like Canada,
which is opening itself up,
that's bringing in hundreds of thousands,
about 400,000 new migrants
every single year,
one percent of its population.
There are a couple of European countries
that are realizing that they need
to do this as well,
and are kind of changing
their tune around immigration.
And they're trying to do so
in a sustainable way,
focusing on building affordable housing,
decarbonizing their economies,
or at least reducing
emissions and so forth.
The fact is that all of these scenarios
are happening at the same time.
It's incumbent on us to shape
the direction that the world goes in
or that the regions that we live in
go in, in the future.
Geography is what we make of it.
You know, we have the tools
at our disposal
to build a different
model of civilization.
And for me, that rests on two principles
or two things that you can do.
You are either moving people to places
where there are resources
that are abundant so they can survive,
or you're moving technologies to people,
to the places where they need them.
You're doing one of those two things.
If you're not doing one
of those two things,
you should think about how much
you're helping the future, if you will,
and the people of the present
and the future.
The second is, I obviously advocate
for mobility as a human right.
That doesn't mean
that we tear down all borders.
It means that we create systems
where the mismatches
between old and young,
labor shortages and labor supply,
sustainable and unsustainable
locations is corrected.
And we can do that, but we don't.
We obviously have to think
beyond sovereignty,
therefore to stewardship
of the global commons.
We have to pre-design
these habitats of the future,
which is to say, thinking about allowing
people to be perpetually mobile
as they need to be in response
to geopolitics,
in response to climate change,
but do so in a way that doesn't
trample upon the environment.
Whitney Pennington Rodgers:
TED Member Kim has a question.
Kim asks, "Immigration
to the US seems impossible.
How do we shift the attitude towards
welcoming immigrants here in the US?"
And their question is US-focused,
but I think this can apply anywhere.
How do we shift the attitude everywhere
to welcoming people into borders?
PK: It is a universally relevant question,
especially again, in the developed,
mature Western economies and societies
that have had a lot of friction
and a lot of backlash
and caution about large-scale immigration,
at least in the last, say, 10, 15 years.
And that's the US, Canada, you know,
Western European countries, Japan,
all of them are changing to some degree.
The question is how rapidly?
You know, Canada really stands out
as a country that's welcoming in,
as I mentioned before, you know,
400,000 people a year,
one percent of its population,
as a target growth.
But the US, you know,
as bureaucratic as it is,
as contentious as it is,
and the fact that during the Trump years,
immigration began to decline
and then because of COVID, you know,
became even harder.
But let me tell you something
very special about America.
This year, according to a congressional
delegation I just hosted in Singapore,
the US will probably have
one million new migrants this year.
One million.
I want to be absolutely clear.
No country on Earth goes from 200,000
to one million overnight by design.
And that's America, right?
So everything that's not gone well
in immigration can be fixed
and positively overcompensated
by the kinds of reforms
that are underway today:
H-1B reforms, refugee reforms,
skilled migration reforms,
digitizing immigration,
carrying over a certain,
you know, frozen quotas from the past.
All of these things
are actually happening.
Should it have happened years ago? Yes.
Should it be happening faster? Yes.
Should immigration policy be done
in a way in which we focus
on the shortages in our labor force,
which are so many?
We're hurting our own economy
by having such a slow immigration process.
We should have done all of this
a lot earlier and to a larger degree,
and this would have
depoliticized immigration.
So it's been to our own detriment.
But can America actually fix these things
faster than than we, you know,
very rightly, cynically,
especially if you've been on the wrong
side of the immigration story
and you've failed to cross a T on a form
and it sets you back like, two years,
you know, you're rightly angry
and cynical about it.
I mean, I'm an immigrant myself,
I didn't move to America till I was six.
I remember becoming a citizen,
I know my parents sweated that paperwork,
I watched them do it.
But these things can be fixed
and no one can fix it
like America can, that's for sure.
So there's a lot of hope in that.
And again, European
countries are changing.
Germany brought in, you know,
more than a million,
again, not by design, not intentionally,
but think about the Syrian refugee crisis.
More than a million people
arrived in Germany.
A lot of them have stayed.
More are coming now from Ukraine.
And they've managed their politics
to fend off, you know,
right-wing populist parties.
They have a center-left
coalition right now.
So Canada, the US, Germany,
the UK, despite Brexit,
it's easier to move to the UK
today than during Brexit.
I’m not sure people realize this.
Because they again have had massive
shortages in nursing and truck drivers,
you name it.
So there's just two kinds
of countries in the world,
those that have realized
they need more migrants
and those that haven't, right?
And those in the former category
are the smarter ones.
And they're going to come out ahead
in the war for young talent.
WPR: TED member Heidi has a question,
"We've seen that governments and countries
veer nationalistic and xenophobic
when there are a flood of immigrants.
How can we future-proof our democratic
systems against this reactionary outcome?"
PK: For one thing, you know,
I don't posit that immigration itself,
as in "let the people in,"
is some kind of panacea.
I am a strong believer in assimilation.
And one of the key things
around future proofing
is maintaining your kind of,
national ethos,
national identity, national culture.
But culture doesn't mean the way things
were for the last 400 years,
and it's never allowed
to change from that, right?
That's a very archaic, you know,
ethnically and sort of, chauvinistic
approach to the issue.
Culture is valuable.
Culture evolves, culture changes.
If you look at a country like Canada,
again, multiculturalism
is the identity of the country.
The UK is changing its rules
to make it easier to come in.
That's a fact.
It's a legal fact that you can now
come into the UK without a job offer,
without paying a security bond.
We've got these massive
immigration reforms.
So, Japan, there have never been
as many foreigners in Japan
as there are today.
So even in a place that we think of
as very culturally insular, right,
even there, you've got
a large-scale migration.
So there is zero, zero truth
to the statement
that the world is governed by right wing,
xenophobic populists
that are anti-immigrant.
It is precisely the exact factual
opposite of that, right?
The important countries of the world
are governed by pragmatic leaders
that are recognizing the importance
of large-scale immigration
as part of their economic health
and their social dynamism.
That is how the important countries
in the world are run today.
That's the way they have
been run for 75 years.
If that weren't true, we wouldn't
be having this conversation
because, you know, all of us
who are migrants wouldn't have migrated.
We never would have been let in.
WPR: There are some people who may
push back on that, right,
and say that, well, we still see
struggles with inequality
and that, you know,
things are not fair and great
for people who do come to those countries.
And I wonder if there are specific things
that you think could be done better
even in those spaces,
but that are really success stories
that I think nations that are looking
to invite people in
can really take on to ensure
that everyone does feel
like they have a good life.
PK: There are really good lessons learned,
and this is not pie-in-the-sky thinking.
This is one of the major areas
of political social research,
which is to say, what can we do?
So if you look at smaller
European countries like,
let's say the Netherlands, right,
they have a really strong
language adoption policy.
There is no way you'll get Dutch
citizenship unless you've learned Dutch,
for example.
And Germany is making this clear as well
in a much larger country,
which is, you know,
you definitely have to learn German.
And I think that's actually
pretty important.
I don't seek to suppress
people's original, you know,
identities and their languages.
But it is a fact that if you actually
want to not be a burden
on your host society,
but actually be a contributor
and be welcomed by, liked by,
respected by all segments of the society
that is your new home,
you will do a much better job
of it if you learn the language.
And this is like, you know,
the kind of thing we’d say, OK, well,
can't we spend a few bucks on that?
You know, how about we allocate some
money to do some language training,
and that would actually
go a really long way.
So jobs, skills, education,
language, public housing.
So, this is something that’s done
in Singapore, where I live right now.
You know, you've got universal
public housing.
And if we did more
around affordable housing,
that would diminish the inequality,
and inequality obviously skews
in many countries,
in immigrant societies,
towards the newly-arrived people
who don't have the economic means.
So well, we can fix that, right?
I mean, there's a physical solution
to inadequate public housing.
It's called building more housing, right?
And you know, if you look
at places again, like Canada,
the Netherlands, France,
this is happening in Finland.
Lots of countries are building
lots more affordable housing
and it's actually helping to change
some of the local tensions.
So these answers emerge
not from pie-in-the-sky thinking,
but from the real experience
of real countries.
And there are real
policymakers and journalists
and civil servants
who have done these things.
It's good news that there's really
a pretty clear road map
on how to do this and how to make
people feel welcome
and how to have everyone
again, be better off.
[Get access to thought-provoking events
you won't want to miss]
[Become a TED Member
at ted.com/membership]